before embarking on this procedure be
sure to set up your tray with the
following equipment and medication non
sterile gloves
Amazo gastric tube bees come in various
sizes generally the fine bore tubes are
used for feeding and the large bore
tubes for drainage of gastric contents
lubricating jelly a flashlight or torch
water if the patient is conscious and a
loud oral intake sipping water can help
with insertion of the tube an emesis
basin this is necessary as the patient
may vomit it during insertion of the
tube medium-sized steri-strips these are
used to secure the tube through the nose
blue litmus strips to assist the pH of
the nasogastric aspirate a catheter tip
door to me syringe a drainage bag a
linen protector and a disposable bag for
waste
inquire about any previous nasal surgery
or trauma or difficulty in breathing
through a particular nostril
if the patient is able to ask them to
blow their nose
examine each nasal passage and turn and
check for abnormalities if any are
present use the opposite side using the
tube as a measuring device measure from
the meadows to the ear and then down to
the zip void process for length to be
inserted can then be read off the
markings on the tube
drape a linen protector over the
patient's clothing during insertion the
tube has to point downwards and towards
the patient's ear once it has reached
the maze of pharynx twisted to 180
degrees this minimizes the risk of the
tube coiling at the back of the mouth
lubricates the proximal end of the tube
with lubrication jelly
insert the tube gently into the chosen
nasal passage even though there may have
been no obvious abnormality noticed
during inspection a non visible
obstruction may prevent the tube from
progressing further in this case remove
the tube and try the opposite nostril
gently insert the tube until you reach
the maze of pharynx you will feel a
slight resistance at this point twist
the tube 180 degrees if not
contraindicated ask the patient to sip
some water and to swallow slowly
you
continue to insert the tube until the
predetermined length has been reached
confirm the position of the tube by
aspirating on it with the Toomey syringe
and checking the pH of the contents
you
the content should turn the blue litmus
strip red
an alternative method of confirming the
position by listening over the
epigastrium for a bubbling or gurgling
sound while insufflating air through the
tube is falling out of favour as it is
not very reliable if there are any
doubts regarding the position of a tube
confirm it with a chest x-ray
use the steri-strips to attach the tube
to the nose by applying wiring into the
nose and wrapping the other end around
the tube
you
ensure that the tube is not applying
excessive pressure against the nostril
as this can lead to necrosis
attach the bag to the tube and a lava
free drainage document the procedure
it's indication size of tube used and
the amount and nature of the aspirate in
the patient's records